# Introduction

`yt` is a Open Source Python package for analysis and visualization of volumetric data. It was originally written for analysis of multi-resolution astrophysical simulation outputs and has expanded its use cases into additional domains such as geodynamics, geophysics, weather simulation and engineering. `yt` can ingest data from a wide range of data structures including AMR grid patches, Octree structures, smoothed-particle hydrodynamic output and unstructured meshes. Additionally, a large portion of the methods in `yt` are parallelized with MPI and commonly used in HPC systems for analysis of simulation data. 

Recent efforts to improve the use of `yt` in geoscience domains have focused on improving documentation (Havlin et al., 2020, 2021) and improving interoperability with other Python packages which has resulted in the `yt_xarray` package. `xararay` is a popular metadata-preserving array library with support for a large number of file formats including traditional formats like netCDF and HDF but also newer cloud optimized storage solutions like Zarr arrays. 

The work presented here describes recent improvements to `yt_xarray`, most notably, the introduction of a coordinate transformation framework to simplify the steps required to utilize any of the methods in `yt` that rely on ray tracing (such as Volume Rendering). We also describe current efforts to leverage Zarr within the `yt` framework, both indirectly through the `xarray` backend exposed by `yt_xarray` and more directly within `yt` to access chunked particle data and multi-resolution grid structures.